#id	Sample specific UMD id.
Variation name (cDNA level)	cDNA level name of variant in HGVS format.
Variation name (protein level)	protein level name of variant in HGVS format.
Mutation type	Mutation type: transition mutation (Ts) in which the base change does not change the pyrimidine-purine orientation. Transversion mutation (Tv) in which the purine-pyrimidine orientation is changed to pyrimidine-purine or vice versa.
Variation class	MS (missense), FS (frameshift), IFD (in frame deletion), IFI (in frame insertion, RGT (large rearrangement), NS (non-sens), ins/del (insertion-deletion), PTC (premature termination codon).
wt codon	The wild-type codon for this variant.
wt aa	The wild-type amino acid for this variant.
mutant codon	The mutant codon for this variant.
mutant aa	The mutant amino acid for this variant.
mutational event	Sequence variation.
mutation type	Mutation type: transition mutation (Ts) in which the base change does not change the pyrimidine-purine orientation. Transversion mutation (Tv) in which the purine-pyrimidine orientation is changed to pyrimidine-purine or vice versa.
Structure	Location of the variant on the known tridimensional structure.
Key Residue (HCD)	Highly conserved amino acid or interacting directly with a known partner.
Pyrimidin doublet	Pyrimidine double.
CpG	CpG sites are regions of DNA where a cytosine nucleotide occurs next to a guanine nucleotide in the linear sequence of bases along its length. CpG stands for cytosine and guanine separated by a phosphate (-C-phosphate-G-), which links the two nucleosides together in DNA. The CpG notation is used to distinguish a cytosine followed by guanine from a cytosine base paired to a guanine.
At the mRNA level	Mutation impact at the mRNA level.
On restriction map	Mutation on restriction map.
Sample ID	Anonymous number of family.
Patient status	Patient status.
Gender	Gender of the sample.
Transmission	Transmission of the variant for the sample.
Age of onset	Age of onset.
Family type	Family type.
Reference ID	Reference ID. (-1 means null data)
Reference	Documentation of whether the data has already been published.
Mutation already described in the following databases	A list of databases the mutation is already described in.
Method of analysis	Method of analysis.
Splice site type	Splice site type.
Wild type sequence	Wild-type sequence.
CV	Common Variant score.
Mutant type sequence	Mutant type sequence.
Variation (%)	Variation percent.
Biological significance	Biological significance classification of the variant in this database. Class 5: Causal, Class 4: Likely causal, Class 3: Uncertain-insufficient evidence, Class 2: Likely Neutral, Class 1: Neutral