Accession Number	Unique identifier generated at the time mutation is entered into database
Exon	BRCA1 or BRCA2 exon in which mutation has been identified
NT	Nucleotide # in the transcript (cDNA) at which mutation occurs; Reference sequences: BRCA1 GenBank U14680; BRCA2 GenBank U43746
Codon	Triplet codon # (ATG is +1) in which mutation occurs
Base Change	Description of nucleotide difference compared to reference sequence
AA Change	Description of resulting change in the encoded amino acid sequence
Designation	Designation of described mutation according to BIC nomenclature guidelines
HGVS cDNA	Designation of described mutation according to HGVS nomenclature guidelines for cDNA sequence
HGVS Protein	Designation of described mutation according to HGVS nomenclature guidelines for protein sequence
HGVS Genomic (hg19)	Designation of described mutation according to HGVS nomenclature guidelines for genomic sequence
Genotype	The genotype of the variant.
dbSNP	NCBI dbSNP Accession of described mutation
Mutation Type	Abbreviation(Mutation Type): 3'UTR(3'UTR 3-prime Untranslated Region), 5'UTR(5'UTR 5-prime Untranslated Region), F(Frameshift), IFI(In Frame Insertion), IFD(In Frame Deletion), IVS(Intervening Sequence), M(Missense), N(Nonsense), P(Polymorphism), S(Splice), Syn(Synonymous), UV(Unclassified Variant)
Clinically Importance	[Yes]: (Clinical context) Based on available data, it is the opinion of the BIC steering committee that sequence change of this type interferes with gene function and results in an increased risk of cancer. All clinically important alleles may not confer the same degree of risk and the precise degree of risk associated with this mutation cannot be estimated. (Basic Science context) This sequence change may abolish some or all of the normal functions of this gene. Some alleles may produce a stable mutant mRNA or protein. However, many mutant alleles of this type do not produce mRNA or the encoded protein is unstable. [No]: (Clinical context) Based on available data, it is the opinion of the BIC steering committee that this sequence change is neutral or of little clinical importance. Some sequence changes of this type may be associated with modest increases in cancer risk. Some individuals carrying this sequence change also could carry a clinically significant mutation. (Basic Science context) It is likely that the mRNA and protein produced by this allele generally functions similar to wild type. However, this protein contains multiple functional domains and some biological functions of this allele may be compromised. [Unknown]: Insufficient data exist at this time to allow assessment of the clinical or functional implications of this sequence change. Although we attempt to update the BIC database on a regular basis, we also suggest searching the medical literature (PubMed - Google) to determine if new information is available on this sequence change.
Category	Category Clinical Classification: [Class 1] Not pathogenic/low clinical significance: There is significant evidence against this variant being a dominant high-risk pathogenic mutation., [Class 2] Likely not pathogenic/little clinical significance: There is evidence against this variant being a dominant high-risk pathogenic mutation., [Class 3] Uncertain: There is insufficient evidence to place this variant in Class 1, 2, 4 or 5., [Class 4] Likely Pathogenic: There is evidence that this variant is a dominant high-risk pathogenic mutation. [Class 5] Pathogenic: There is significant evidence to suggest that this variant is a dominant high-risk pathogenic mutation.
Evidence	Class 1: [1a] Variants reported to occur in outbred control reference groups at an allele frequency >= 1% (MAF >= 0.01)., [1b] Variants with probability of pathogenicity <=0.001 using a multifactorial likelihood model or using historically calculated likelihood ratios of <=1:100 for pathogenicity (multifactorial likelihood model; Easton et al.2007; Goldgar et al. 2004; Goldgar et al. 2008)., Class 2: [2a] Variants reported to occur in a specific ethnic group at allele frequency >=1%, (MAF >= 0.01) and that have not yet been excluded as known founder pathogenic sequence variants. [2b] Synonymous substitutions, intronic variants, or exonic variants encoding a missense substitution or resulting in a small in-frame insertion/deletion that occur within a position that is not evolutionarily conserved [as indicated by an A-GVGD prior probability for the predicted missense alteration of <5%] and for which there is no associated mRNA aberration (either splicing or nonsense-mediated decay leading to allelic imbalance) as determined by laboratory assays conducted with nonsense-mediated decay inhibition. Transcripts identified at similar levels in controls, with mRNA from the same source as the variant carrier, are considered to be naturally occurring isoforms and not mRNA aberrations. [2c] Variants with probability of pathogenicity between 0.001-0.049 using a multifactorial likelihood model., Class 3: [3a] Variants that have insufficient evidence (molecular or otherwise) to classify. [3b] Variants with probability of pathogenicity between 0.05-0.949 using a multifactorial likelihood model or a historically calculated likelihood ratio of >1:100 or <100:1 in favor of pathogenicity., Class 4: [4a] Variants which are extremely likely to affect splicing that have not yet been tested in vitro. Specifically these are variants at IVS+-1 or IVS+-2, or G>gt:non-G at last base of the exon if the first 6 bases of the intron are not GTRRGT. [4b] Variants with probability of pathogenicity between 0.95-0.99 using a multifactorial likelihood model., Class 5 [5a] Coding sequence variants that encode an illegitimate stop codon. These include nonsense or frameshift pathogenic alterations that occur within or upstream of known functional protein domains** or highly conserved exonic sequences that occur before the last exon and as a result are predicted to interrupt the function of these domains. Predicted nonsense or frameshift truncating mutations in any exon with high bioinformatic likelihood to disrupt normal splicing (e.g. disruption of native donor/acceptor sites, creation of de novo donor), require mRNA assays to confirm the nature and clinical consequence of aberrant transcripts. Similarly, nonsense or frameshift mutations that occur in exons which can be alternatively spliced in relevant tissues with no apparent functional consequences should be assessed by mRNA assays to determine their consequences. [5b] Variant alleles which produce only transcript(s) carrying a premature stop codon or an in-frame deletion disrupting known functional domain(s)** as determined by semi-quantitative or quantitative laboratory assays that include nonsense-mediated decay inhibition analysis. [5c] Copy number deletion variants that remove one or more exons that includes a known functional domain** or that result in a frameshift as confirmed by a reliable secondary assay. [5d] Copy number duplication variants of any size that duplicate one or more exons and are shown by laboratory studies to result in a frameshift before the last splice junction. [5e] Variants with probability of pathogenicity > 0.99 using a multifactorial likelihood model or historically derived likelihood ratios of >1000:1 in favor of pathogenicity. [5f] Variants that do not fit the above criteria which have been evaluated by the BIC Steering Committee and have been deemed by this panel to be pathogenic on the basis of multiple independent features.
Depositor	Contributor of mutation report.
Patient Sample Source	Hospital or research institute from which patient sample originated.
ID Number	Patient identifier designation in publications, or used by hospital or research institute.
Number Reported	Number of family members carrying mutation.
G or S	Germline or Somatic.
Detection Method	SSCP, direct sequencing, DGGE etc.
Proband Tumor Type	Breast, ovarian, other.
#Chr	Number of normal control chromosomes screened.
A	Frequency of polymorphism. Information on the frequency of variants in normal control chromosomes, if known.
C	Frequency of polymorphism. Information on the frequency of variants in normal control chromosomes, if known.
G	Frequency of polymorphism. Information on the frequency of variants in normal control chromosomes, if known.
T	Frequency of polymorphism. Information on the frequency of variants in normal control chromosomes, if known.
Reference	Literature citation in which mutation was first reported.
Contact Person	Email address of individual to whom inquiries should be addressed.
Notes	Additional information describing the mutation, family history, patient series, age of onset, etc.
Creation Date	Date on which mutation is entered into the public database.
Ethnicity	Information on patient ethnicity, if known.
Nationality	Information on patient nationality, if known.
Additional Information	Aditional information pertaining to variant.
Functional Data	A compilation of functional data from BRCA1 CIRCOS.
